# A Compiler to Extract Pedestrian Topologies into GeoJSON

This Data Processing Library Java example shows how to use the
HERE Data SDK to build a compiler pipeline that extracts all pedestrian topologies for a
particular input catalog.

The compiler in this example is an incremental RefTreeCompiler which
takes HERE Map Content input data, finds all pedestrian topologies, and produces output
tiles in GeoJSON Format. The output of this compiler is the `pedestriansegments` layer GeoJSON
HEREtile format.

## Get Your Credentials

To run this example, you need two sets of credentials:

* **Platform credentials:** To get access to the platform data and resources, including HERE Map Content data for your pipeline input. 
* **Repository credentials:** To download HERE Data SDK for Java & Scala libraries and Maven archetypes to your environment.

For more details on how to set up your credentials, see [Get Your Credentials](https://developer.here.com/documentation/java-scala-dev/dev_guide/topics/get-credentials.html).

For more details on how to verify that your platform credentials are configured correctly, see the [Verify Your Credentials](https://developer.here.com/documentation/java-scala-dev/dev_guide/verify-credentials/index.html) tutorial.

## Configure a Project

To follow this example, you'll need a [project](https://developer.here.com/documentation/access-control/user_guide/topics/manage-projects.html). A project is a collection of platform resources
 (catalogs, pipelines, and schemas) with controlled access. You can create a project through the
 **HERE platform portal**.
 
Alternatively, use the OLP CLI [`olp project create`](https://developer.here.com/documentation/open-location-platform-cli/user_guide/topics/project/project-commands.html#create-project) command to create the project:

```bash
olp project create $PROJECT_ID $PROJECT_NAME
```

The command returns the [HERE Resource Name (HRN)](https://developer.here.com/documentation/data-user-guide/user_guide/shared_content/topics/olp/concepts/hrn.html) of your new project. Note down this HRN as you'll need it later in this tutorial.

> Note:
> You don't have to provide a `--scope` parameter if your app has a default scope.
> For details on how to set a default project scope for an app, see the _Specify a
> default Project_ for Apps chapter of the [Teams and Permissions Guide](https://developer.here.com/documentation/access-control/user_guide/topics/manage-projects.html).

For more information on how to work with projects, see the [Organize your work in projects](https://developer.here.com/documentation/java-scala-dev/dev_guide/organize-work-in-projects/index.html) tutorial.

## Create the Pedestrian Topologies Catalog

The catalog you need to create is used to store the pedestrian topologies generated by a compiler.

Use the **HERE platform portal** to [create the output catalog](https://developer.here.com/documentation/data-user-guide/user_guide/portal/catalog-creating.html) in your project and [add the following layers](https://developer.here.com/documentation/data-user-guide/user_guide/portal/layer-creating.html):

| Layer ID           | Layer Type | Partitioning | Zoom Level | Content Type             | Content Encoding |
|--------------------|------------|--------------|------------|--------------------------|------------------|
| pedestriansegments | Versioned  | HEREtile     | 14         | application/vnd.geo+json | uncompressed     |
| state              | Versioned  | Generic      | N.A.       | application/octet-stream | uncompressed     |

Alternatively, you can use the OLP CLI to create the catalog and the corresponding layers.

In the commands that follow, replace the variable placeholders with the following values:
- `$CATALOG_ID` is your output catalog's ID.
- `$CATALOG_HRN` is your output catalog's `HRN` (returned by `olp catalog create`).
- `$PROJECT_HRN` is your project's `HRN` (returned by `olp project create` command).
- `$CATALOG_RIB` is the HRN of the public _HERE Map Content_ catalog in your pipeline configuration ([HERE environment](./config/here/pipeline-config.conf) or [HERE China environment](./config/here-china/pipeline-config.conf)).

> Note:
> We recommend you to set values to variables so that you can easily copy and execute the following commands.

1. Use the [`olp catalog create`](https://developer.here.com/documentation/open-location-platform-cli/user_guide/topics/data/catalog-commands.html#catalog-create) command to create the catalog.
Make sure to note down the HRN returned by the following command for later use:

```bash
olp catalog create $CATALOG_ID $CATALOG_ID \
            --summary "Pedestrian topologies extracted from HERE Map Content" \
            --description "Pedestrian topologies extracted from HERE Map Content" \
            --scope $PROJECT_HRN
```

2. Use the [`olp catalog layer add`](https://developer.here.com/documentation/open-location-platform-cli/user_guide/topics/data/layer-commands.html#catalog-layer-add) command to add two versioned layers to your catalog:

```bash
olp catalog layer add $CATALOG_HRN pedestriansegments pedestriansegments --versioned --summary "pedestrian segments" \
            --description "pedestrian segments" --partitioning heretile:14 \
            --content-type application/vnd.geo+json --scope $PROJECT_HRN
olp catalog layer add $CATALOG_HRN state state --versioned --summary "state" \
            --description "state" --partitioning Generic \
            --content-type application/octet-stream --scope $PROJECT_HRN
```

3. Use the [`olp project resources link`](https://developer.here.com/documentation/open-location-platform-cli/user_guide/topics/project/project-resources-commands.html#project-resources-link) command to link the _HERE Map Content_ catalog to your project:

```bash
olp project resources link $PROJECT_HRN $CATALOG_RIB
```

- For more details on catalog commands, see [Catalog Commands](https://developer.here.com/documentation/open-location-platform-cli/user_guide/topics/data/catalog-commands.html).
- For more details on layer commands, see [Layer Commands](https://developer.here.com/documentation/open-location-platform-cli/user_guide/topics/data/layer-commands.html).
- For more details on project commands, see [Project Commands](https://developer.here.com/documentation/open-location-platform-cli/user_guide/topics/project/project-commands.html).
- For instructions on how to link a resource to a project, see [Project Resources Link command](https://developer.here.com/documentation/open-location-platform-cli/user_guide/topics/project/project-resources-commands.html#project-resources-link).

## Configure the Compiler

From the SDK examples directory, open the `data-processing/java/pedestrian-topologies-extraction-geojson` project in your
Integrated Development Environment (IDE).

The `compiler/config/here/pipeline-config.conf` (for the HERE platform environment) and
`compiler/config/here-china/pipeline-config.conf` (for the HERE platform China environment) files contain
the permanent configuration of the data sources for the compiler.

Pick the file that corresponds to your platform environment. For example, the pipeline configuration for
the HERE platform environment looks like:

```javascript
pipeline.config {
  output-catalog {hrn = "YOUR_OUTPUT_CATALOG_HRN"}
  input-catalogs {
    rib {hrn = "hrn:here:data::olp-here:rib-2"}
  }
}
```
Replace `YOUR_OUTPUT_CATALOG_HRN` with the HRN of your pedestrian topologies catalog.

To find the HRN, in the [HERE platform portal](https://platform.here.com/) or the
[HERE platform China portal](https://platform.hereolp.cn/), navigate to your catalog. The HRN is displayed in the
 Catalog info section.

Alternatively, you can use the catalog's HRN from the OLP CLI output from
 [Create the Pedestrian Topologies Catalog](#create-the-pedestrian-topologies-catalog).

The `config/here/pipeline-job.conf` and `config/here-china/pipeline-job.conf` files
contain the compiler's run configuration.

In this file, modify `version = 1` to reflect the version of the HERE Map Content catalog you want
to process.  To find the version of the HERE Map Content catalog, in the 
[HERE platform portal](https://platform.here.com/) or the [HERE platform China portal](https://platform.hereolp.cn/),
navigate to the HERE Map Content catalog, and view the current catalog's version in the Catalog info section.

The remainder of the configuration is specified in the `application.conf` file that can be found in the
`src/main/resources` directory of the compiler project. However, you do not have to modify it unless
you want to change the behavior of the compiler.

## Build the Compiler

To build the compiler, run `mvn install` in the `pedestrian-topologies-extraction-geojson` directory.

## Run the Compiler Locally

To run the compiler locally, you will need to run the entry point to the compiler:

- `com.here.platform.data.processing.example.java.pedestrian.geojson.Main`

As _arguments_, you must provide the `-Dspark.master` _parameter_ with the address of the Spark server
master to connect to, and any configuration parameters you want to override. Alternatively, you
can add those parameters to the `application.conf` file.

Additionally, you also need to specify the `-Dpipeline-config.file` and `-Dpipeline-job.file` _parameters_
to specify the location of a configuration file that contains the catalogs as well as job-specific versions
of the catalogs, to read and write to.

For local runs, a bounding box filter is provided in the
`compile/config/here/local-application.conf` and `compile/config/here-china/local-application.conf` to
limit the number of partitions to be processed. This speeds up the compilation process. In this
example, we use a bounding box around the cities of Berlin and Beijing for the HERE platform and HERE
China platform environments respectively. You can edit the bounding box coordinates to compile a different
partition of HERE Map Content. Make sure you update the layer coverage to reflect the different
geographical region. In order to use this configuration file, you need to use the `-Dconfig.file`
parameter.

Additionally, you also need to specify the
 `-Dhere.platform.data-client.request-signer.credentials.here-account.here-token-scope=$PROJECT_HRN` _parameter_
 to provide a scope. 
 
Setup the environment variable `$PATH_TO_CONFIG_FOLDER` to `./config/here`, 
for the HERE platform China environment use the files in the `./config/here-china` directory.

### Run the Compiler from the Command Line

Finally run the following command line in the
`pedestrian-topologies-extraction-geojson` directory to run the Pedestrian Topologies Compiler.

For the HERE platform environment:

```bash
mvn exec:java \
-Dexec.mainClass=com.here.platform.data.processing.example.java.pedestrian.geojson.Main \
-Dpipeline-config.file=$PATH_TO_CONFIG_FOLDER/pipeline-config.conf \
-Dpipeline-job.file=./config/here/pipeline-job.conf \
-Dconfig.file=./config/here/local-application.conf \
-Dspark.master=local[*] \
-Dhere.platform.data-client.request-signer.credentials.here-account.here-token-scope=$PROJECT_HRN
```

Once the processing is finished, a new version to your `pedestriansegments` layer will be added.

You can now go to the [Verify the Output](#verify-the-output) section to inspect the results.

## Run this Compiler as the HERE Platform Pipeline

### Generate a Fat JAR file:

Run the `mvn -Pplatform package` command in the `pedestrian-topologies-extraction-geojson` directory
to generate a fat JAR file to deploy the compiler to a Pipeline.

```bash
mvn -Pplatform package
```

### Deploy The Compiler to a Pipeline:

Once the previous command is finished, your JAR is then available at the `target` directory, and you
can upload it using the [HERE platform pipelines UI](https://platform.here.com/pipelines) (the
[HERE platform China pipelines UI](https://platform.hereolp.cn/pipelines) in China)
or the [OLP CLI](https://developer.here.com/olp/documentation/open-location-platform-cli).

You can use the OLP CLI to create pipeline components and activate the pipeline version with the following commands:

1. [Create](https://developer.here.com/documentation/open-location-platform-cli/user_guide/topics/pipeline-workflows.html) pipeline components:

```bash
olp pipeline create $COMPONENT_NAME_Pipeline --scope $PROJECT_HRN
olp pipeline template create $COMPONENT_NAME_Template batch-2.1.0 $PATH_TO_JAR \
                com.here.platform.data.processing.example.java.pedestrian.geojson.Main \
                --workers=4 --worker-units=3 --supervisor-units=2 --input-catalog-ids=rib \
                --scope $PROJECT_HRN
olp pipeline version create $COMPONENT_NAME_version $PIPELINE_ID $PIPELINE_TEMPLATE_ID \
                "$PATH_TO_CONFIG_FOLDER/pipeline-config.conf" \
                --scope $PROJECT_HRN
```

2. [Activate](https://developer.here.com/documentation/open-location-platform-cli/user_guide/topics/pipeline/version-commands.html#pipeline-version-activate) the pipeline version:

```bash
olp pipeline version activate $PIPELINE_ID $PIPELINE_VERSION_ID \
                --input-catalogs "$PATH_TO_CONFIG_FOLDER/pipeline-job.conf" \
                --scope $PROJECT_HRN
```

You don't have to specify the input catalog's version, unless you want
to. The latest version will be automatically used.

In the [HERE platform portal](https://platform.here.com/pipelines) / [HERE platform China portal](https://platform.hereolp.cn/pipelines)
navigate to your pipeline to see its status.

Once the processing is finished, a new version to your `pedestriansegments` layer will be added.

You can now go to the [Verify the Output](#verify-the-output) section to inspect the results.

## Verify the Output

In the [HERE platform portal](https://platform.here.com/) / [HERE platform China portal](https://platform.hereolp.cn/)
select the _Data_ tab and find your catalog.
1. Open the `pedestriansegments` layer and select the _Inspect_ tab.
2. On the map, navigate to the location of your bounding box and set the zoom to level 10.
3. Finally, select any highlighted partition to view the results displayed on the map.

Results should be drawn on the map.
